+++
title = "Searching for a hosting provider..."
date = 2023-04-21
slug = "searching-for-a-hosting-provider"
path = "/2023/04/21/searching-for-a-hosting-provider/"

[taxonomies]
categories = ["Meta"]
tags = ["ChatGPT", "CodeReflections", "VPS Hosting", "Server Hunter", "BuyVM",
"FranTech"]
+++

[Yesterday's post](/2023/04/20/how-the-sausage-is-made/) didn't finish the
story of selecting a blogging platform, because I diverted to a side quest of
finding a VPS hosting provider to be able to implement a comment system.  I'll
finish the story of the blogging platform in [tomorrow's
post](/2023/04/22/choosing-a-blogging-platform/).

<!-- more -->

I was leaning towards using a static site generator at this point, but I still
wanted to have a comment system and perhaps other dynamic features, so I
decided to look for a Virtual Private Server (VPS) hosting provider.

{{ first_msg() }}

If I need a server to self-host these systems, is there any free option
available, or will I need to pay a monthly fee for one?

{{ chatgpt_msg() }}

There are some free options available for hosting your self-hosted commenting
system, but they often come with limitations. Here are a few free hosting
providers:

1. Heroku (**[www.heroku.com](https://www.heroku.com/)**): Heroku offers a free
   tier, but it comes with limitations, such as limited usage hours and the app
going to sleep after 30 minutes of inactivity. It might not be ideal for a
production environment, but it's suitable for testing and small projects.

2. Glitch (**[www.glitch.com](https://www.glitch.com/)**): Glitch is another
   platform where you can host small projects and prototypes for free. It also
has limitations on usage and resources, and your app may go to sleep after a
period of inactivity.

3. Oracle Cloud (**[www.oracle.com/cloud/free](www.oracle.com/cloud/free/)**):
   Oracle Cloud offers a free tier with limited resources. You can host small
projects on their "Always Free" tier, which includes compute and storage
resources.

These options can work for hosting a self-hosted commenting system, but be
aware of their limitations. As your blog grows and traffic increases, you may
need to upgrade to a paid plan or switch to another hosting provider to ensure
better performance, stability, and support.

Remember that the options mentioned above are subject to change, and it's
always a good idea to research the latest offerings and terms of service for
each provider.

{{ last_msg() }}

Free options are great, but I wanted more flexibility and fewer limitations, so
I wanted to explore the paid options as well.  However, I didn't want to drive
up the cost of this project unnecessarily, just on general principle.  Rather
than just choosing one of the most obvious options (such as AWS), I wanted to
look for the most affordable reasonable option I could find.

{{ first_msg() }}

What would be the most cost-efficient paid plans?

{{ chatgpt_msg() }}

Cost-efficient paid plans can vary based on your specific requirements, such as
storage, bandwidth, and server resources. Here are a few popular and
cost-efficient hosting providers with their respective entry-level plans:

1. DigitalOcean (**[www.digitalocean.com](https://www.digitalocean.com/)**):
   DigitalOcean's most affordable plan starts at $5/month, offering 1GB of RAM,
1 vCPU, 25GB SSD storage, and 1TB of data transfer. They provide scalable
virtual private servers (VPS) and a user-friendly control panel.

2. Linode (**[www.linode.com](https://www.linode.com/)**): Linode's entry-level
   plan starts at $5/month, with 1GB of RAM, 1 vCPU, 25GB SSD storage, and 1TB
of data transfer. They provide scalable VPS solutions and a simple-to-use
control panel.

3. Vultr (**[www.vultr.com](https://www.vultr.com/)**): Vultr's most affordable
   plan starts at $3.50/month, offering 1GB of RAM, 1 vCPU, 25GB SSD storage,
and 1TB of data transfer. They offer scalable VPS solutions with an easy-to-use
interface.

4. AWS Lightsail
   (**[aws.amazon.com/lightsail](https://aws.amazon.com/lightsail/)**): Amazon
Web Services (AWS) Lightsail's most affordable plan starts at $3.50/month,
providing 512MB of RAM, 1 vCPU, 20GB SSD storage, and 1TB of data transfer.
It's a simplified version of AWS's extensive cloud services.

5. Hetzner Cloud (**[www.hetzner.com/cloud](https://www.hetzner.com/cloud/)**):
   Hetzner's entry-level plan starts at â‚¬2.49/month (approximately
$2.75/month), offering 1 vCPU, 2GB RAM, 20GB SSD storage, and 20TB of data
transfer. They provide scalable VPS solutions with competitive pricing.

These are just a few examples of cost-efficient hosting providers. Keep in mind
that each provider's features, performance, and customer support can vary. It's
essential to research and choose the provider that best fits your needs and
budget. Be sure to check for any additional costs, such as backup services,
additional IP addresses, or data transfer overages.

{{ last_msg() }}

I was concerned about the possibility of a DDoS attack causing excessive
traffic, exceeding bandwidth limits, and causing unlimited additional costs for
bandwidth overages.  As such, I preferred to find a flat-rate option which
wouldn't have a risk of bandwidth overage charges.

{{ first_msg() }}

Are there any which offer unlimited bandwidth for a flat rate?

{{ chatgpt_msg() }}

It's difficult to find hosting providers that offer truly unlimited bandwidth
for a flat rate. Most providers have fair usage policies or restrictions in
place to prevent abuse of resources. However, some hosting providers market
their plans as offering "unlimited" bandwidth, although there might still be
limitations or restrictions in place. Here are a couple of options you can
consider:

1. DreamHost (**[www.dreamhost.com](https://www.dreamhost.com/)**): DreamHost
   offers shared hosting plans with unlimited bandwidth, starting at
$2.59/month.  However, shared hosting might not be suitable for self-hosting a
commenting system, as the performance may not be as good as a VPS.
Additionally, their VPS plans, which start at $10/month, come with unlimited
bandwidth as well, but they do have a fair usage policy in place.

2. Hostinger (**[www.hostinger.com](https://www.hostinger.com/)**): Hostinger
   offers shared hosting plans with unlimited bandwidth, starting at
$1.39/month.  Like DreamHost, shared hosting might not be the best option for
self-hosting a commenting system. Hostinger's VPS plans start at $3.95/month
and come with a specific amount of bandwidth, not unlimited.

It's essential to read the provider's terms of service and fair usage policies
to understand the limitations and restrictions that may apply to "unlimited"
bandwidth. Generally, VPS or cloud hosting providers offer specific data
transfer limits based on the plan you choose. If you expect high traffic on
your blog, it's better to choose a plan with a higher data transfer limit or
consider providers with scalable pricing based on actual usage.

{{ last_msg() }}

Shared hosting plans didn't sound like a great option.  These might offer
"unlimited" bandwidth, but the limitations didn't sound appealing, so I tried
explaining more clearly what my goal was.

{{ first_msg() }}

Which plans have flat rate charges with no extra billing for usage overages,
even if that means throttling?

{{ chatgpt_msg() }}

While it's difficult to find hosting providers that guarantee no overage
charges with throttling instead, some providers are more lenient with their
policies. Here are two providers that are known for their generous resource
allocations and flat-rate pricing:

1. DreamHost (**[www.dreamhost.com](https://www.dreamhost.com/)**): DreamHost's
   VPS plans, which start at $10/month, come with unlimited bandwidth, but they
do have a fair usage policy in place. While they don't explicitly mention
throttling, their policy focuses on preventing abuse of resources. In general,
DreamHost has a reputation for being lenient with their usage policies, making
it a good choice for flat-rate pricing.

2. A2 Hosting (**[www.a2hosting.com](https://www.a2hosting.com/)**): A2 Hosting
   offers VPS plans starting at $5/month, which include unmetered bandwidth.
They don't explicitly mention throttling, but their policy is centered around
preventing abuse and ensuring fair usage of resources. A2 Hosting is known for
its customer-friendly approach and resource allocations.

It's important to note that the terms and policies may change, and every
provider handles usage differently. Always read the provider's terms of service
and fair usage policies to understand the limitations and restrictions that may
apply. Reach out to their customer support if you need clarification on their
policies or have specific requirements.

{{ last_msg() }}

When I looked at the DreamHost website, I saw another option for their
WordPress hosting plan.  Even though I didn't intend to go with WordPress, I
decided to ask ChatGPT for an opinion anyhow.

{{ first_msg() }}

Hmm, DreamHost has a WordPress hosting plan.  Should I be considering that?

{{ chatgpt_msg() }}

DreamHost's WordPress hosting plan can be a good option if you decide to use
WordPress for your blog. They offer managed WordPress hosting plans that are
optimized for performance and security. Some benefits of using DreamHost's
WordPress hosting include:

1. Easy installation: DreamHost makes it easy to install and set up WordPress
   with their one-click installer.

2. Automatic updates: DreamHost automatically updates the WordPress core and
   plugins, ensuring that your website is always up to date and secure.

3. Enhanced security: Their managed WordPress hosting includes built-in
   server-level security measures to protect your site from hacks and
vulnerabilities.

4. Free SSL certificate: DreamHost provides a free SSL certificate to ensure
   that your site is secure and compliant with modern web standards.

5. Daily backups: DreamHost automatically backs up your site daily, making it
   easy to restore your site in case of data loss or other issues.

6. 24/7 support: DreamHost offers round-the-clock support via email and live
   chat to help you with any issues that may arise.

However, since you mentioned that you don't want to use WordPress due to its
use of PHP, you might prefer to stick with a static site generator like Jekyll
and host it on GitHub Pages or another hosting provider. If you change your
mind about WordPress, DreamHost's WordPress hosting is a reliable option to
consider.

{{ last_msg() }}

Of course, I wasn't relying on ChatGPT alone here.  During this conversation, I
was also using Google and DuckDuckGo to search for good options too.  One of
the pages I found was a TechRadar article titled
"[Unlimited vs. metered vs. unmetered bandwidth hosting](https://www.techradar.com/versus/unlimited-vs-metered-vs-unmetered-bandwidth-hosting)".
After reading this article, I realized that I should be searching for
"unmetered" bandwidth rather than "unlimited" bandwidth as the better option.

When I started searching for unmetered options, I found this LowEndBox blog
post titled "[A 2GB VPS with Unmetered Bandwidth for $1 a
Month?!?!?](https://lowendbox.com/blog/a-2gb-vps-with-unmetered-bandwidth-for-1-a-month/)".
This post talked about a cheap VPS with 2GB RAM, KVM, 20GB SSD SATA, unmetered
100Mbps traffic and DDoS protection for $0.97/month.  Of course, this was only
an introductory price; after the first 12 months, it would cost $4.20/month,
which still sounded like a decent option.

I wasn't familiar with this [LowEndBox](https://lowendbox.com/) website, but
this is their description of the site:

> LowEndBox is dedicated to helping people run websites and services on low end
> dedicated servers and cheap virtual private servers, where you only need to
> pay a few dollars a month. Our mission is to help people find cheap vps
> hosting.

This certainly sounds like a good resource to keep in mind for anyone looking
for a cheap VPS!

I also found another great website to help with the search for a good but cheap
VPS for this project, [Server Hunter](https://www.serverhunter.com/), which
lets you search through a huge list of server offers while filtering the offers
every way you could imagine: product type (dedicated/hybrid/VPS), pricing,
provider, processor, memory, storage, network, software, virtualization type,
location and other features.  This was an excellent resource.

I searched on Server Hunter for VPS offers with a dedicated IPv4 address and
unmetered bandwidth, and started researching each one starting with the
cheapest offer, asking ChatGPT about some of them.

{{ first_msg() }}

What can you tell me about hostthebest.com?

{{ chatgpt_msg() }}

As of my knowledge cutoff date in September 2021, I am not familiar with
"hostthebest.com" as a web hosting provider. It is possible that the provider
has emerged after that date or it is a less popular provider. When considering
a web hosting provider, it's important to research their reputation, customer
reviews, pricing plans, performance, and customer support to ensure that they
will meet your needs.

For well-established and reputable web hosting providers, you can consider
companies like DreamHost, SiteGround, Bluehost, or A2 Hosting, among others.
These providers have a proven track record of reliable service, performance,
and customer support.

{{ last_msg() }}

ChatGPT is not familiar with this provider?  Hmm.  I tried searching the site
on the archive.org Wayback Machine and found 20 years of snapshots, so why
doesn't ChatGPT recognize them?  Curious.

{{ first_msg() }}

archive.org shows snapshots of hostthebest.com going back 20 years.

{{ chatgpt_msg() }}

I apologize for the confusion in my previous response. HostTheBest.com seems to
be an established web hosting provider that has been around for quite some
time. However, it may not be as popular or widely known as some of the other
hosting providers I mentioned earlier.

When evaluating HostTheBest.com, it is essential to research their reputation,
customer reviews, pricing plans, performance, and customer support.
Additionally, compare their offerings with other hosting providers to make sure
you choose the one that best meets your needs.

You may also want to consider reaching out to their support team or sales
department to ask specific questions about their services and gather more
information about the company.

{{ last_msg() }}

ChatGPT seems to apologize a lot sometimes!  At any rate, I continued my
research.

{{ first_msg() }}

How about "typical.host"?

{{ chatgpt_msg() }}

"Typical.host" does not appear to be a well-known or popular web hosting
provider. A search for the company does not yield any significant results or
information about their reputation, customer reviews, pricing plans, or
performance.

It is important to choose a reliable and reputable hosting provider to ensure
the security, performance, and stability of your website. I recommend
considering the more established and popular hosting providers I previously
mentioned, such as DigitalOcean, Linode, Vultr, or DreamHost, among others.
These providers have proven track records and are known for their customer
support and reliable services.

{{ last_msg() }}

Hmm, another unpopular choice.  ChatGPT sure does seem eager to steer me back
to its preferred suggestions!  Does it get kickbacks?!

{{ first_msg() }}

skysilk.com?

{{ chatgpt_msg() }}

SkySilk Cloud Services (skysilk.com) is a cloud hosting provider that offers
VPS (Virtual Private Server) hosting solutions. They have been around for a few
years and provide various plans to cater to different needs, including
developer, small business, and enterprise solutions.

SkySilk's plans offer a range of resources such as RAM, storage, and CPU cores,
depending on your requirements. They also provide features like free DDoS
protection, SSD storage, and an easy-to-use management dashboard.

Although SkySilk is not as widely known as some other hosting providers like
DigitalOcean, Linode, or Vultr, they have received some positive reviews for
their performance and customer support. It could be a viable option for hosting
your self-hosted comment system, but it's essential to research their offerings
and customer feedback to ensure they meet your requirements and expectations.

{{ last_msg() }}

From the searching I did, SkySilk does seem like a reputable provider, but
their prices seem to have increased substantially from what they were said to
be offering a few years ago.  Scratch that one, I guess.

{{ first_msg() }}

cloudfanatic.net?

{{ chatgpt_msg() }}

I couldn't find any information about a hosting provider called
"cloudfanatic.net." It seems like the domain is not associated with a
well-known or established web hosting company. I would recommend considering
reputable hosting providers with proven track records and positive customer
reviews to ensure the reliability, performance, and security of your hosting
solution. Some popular options include DigitalOcean, Linode, Vultr, AWS, Google
Cloud Platform, and many others, depending on your requirements and
preferences.

{{ last_msg() }}

Here we go again.  Yes, I got the message about what the popular options are,
I'm looking to see if I can find a better option than the popular ones!  This
particular one seems to have changed their name.

{{ first_msg() }}

Looks like they used to be called "Servercheap Inc"

{{ chatgpt_msg() }}

Servercheap Inc, now known as Cloudfanatic.net, appears to be a smaller web
hosting provider. While smaller providers can offer competitive pricing and
more personalized support, it's essential to thoroughly research their
performance, reliability, and customer service before committing.

When evaluating a hosting provider, consider factors such as uptime guarantees,
customer reviews, available features, and the quality of their support team.
It's also a good idea to compare their offerings with those of more established
providers to ensure you're making an informed decision.

{{ last_msg() }}

Apparently another nobody, moving on...

As an aside, I asked about the "LXC" logo I had seen listed on many of the
plans that SkySilk offered.  That didn't ring a bell offhand.

{{ first_msg() }}

SkySilk plans show an "LXC" logo on many plans, what does that mean?

{{ chatgpt_msg() }}

LXC stands for Linux Containers, a lightweight virtualization technology that
allows multiple isolated Linux systems (containers) to run on a single host.
LXC containers share the same kernel as the host system, which makes them more
resource-efficient and faster than traditional virtual machines (VMs) that
require a separate kernel for each instance.

When a hosting plan shows an "LXC" logo, it means that the provider is using
Linux Containers for virtualization. This can offer better performance and
resource management for your hosted applications and services, as LXC
containers have lower overhead compared to traditional VMs. However, keep in
mind that LXC containers are less isolated from the host system, which could
potentially result in a slightly lower security level compared to full
virtualization.

{{ last_msg() }}

Oh, right.  I understand about Linux containers, having used Docker containers
before.  I was pretty sure an LXC container would have root access, but it
wouldn't hurt to confirm it.

{{ first_msg() }}

Would the LXC container have root access?

{{ chatgpt_msg() }}

Yes, LXC containers typically provide root access to the container's
environment. This allows you to have full control over the software and
configuration within the container, as if it were a standalone system. However,
this root access is limited to the container itself and does not grant you root
access to the host system or other containers running on the same host.

It's essential to be cautious when using root access, as it allows you to
perform actions that could potentially harm the container or its data. Always
make sure to understand the implications of the commands you run as root and
follow best practices for system administration and security.

{{ last_msg() }}

Then it occurred to me...  I want to be able to run Docker containers on my
server!  I doubted that would be possible here.

{{ first_msg() }}

Is it possible to run Docker containers within?

{{ chatgpt_msg() }}

Running Docker containers inside LXC containers is generally not recommended,
as it can lead to compatibility issues and potential security risks. Both LXC
and Docker use similar underlying technologies (like cgroups and namespaces),
and nesting these containerization methods can create conflicts.

In some cases, it might be technically possible to run Docker inside an LXC
container, but it would require significant configuration adjustments and
potentially decrease the isolation and security benefits of using containers in
the first place.

If you need to use both LXC and Docker containers, it's better to run them
separately on the same host or use a container orchestration platform like
Kubernetes to manage them. This approach allows you to maintain proper
isolation and take advantage of the respective benefits of each
containerization method.

{{ last_msg() }}

Okay, LXC container plans are out.  Meanwhile, I'm also checking into ChatGPT's
favored options too.  When I checked the [linode.com](https://linode.com/)
website, I discovered that Linode was acquired by Akamai in early 2022.  Since
that option appeared to be confusing and in flux, I decided to skip it.  How
about DigitalOcean?

{{ first_msg() }}

It appears Linode was acquired by Akamai.  Tell me more about DigitalOcean.

{{ chatgpt_msg() }}

DigitalOcean is a popular cloud infrastructure provider founded in 2011 by Ben
Uretsky, Moisey Uretsky, Mitch Wainer, Alec Hartman, and Jeff Carr. The company
focuses on providing simple, scalable, and cost-effective cloud solutions for
developers, startups, and small-to-medium-sized businesses.

DigitalOcean's primary offerings include:

1. Droplets: These are scalable virtual private servers (VPS) that can be
   quickly deployed and customized to match various computing needs. Droplets
can be created with different configurations of CPU, RAM, and storage to suit
specific use cases and performance requirements.

2. Kubernetes: DigitalOcean offers a managed Kubernetes service that simplifies
   container orchestration and deployment. This service helps developers manage
and scale containerized applications easily.

3. App Platform: A platform-as-a-service (PaaS) offering that simplifies
   application deployment, management, and scaling. It supports several popular
programming languages and frameworks, including Node.js, Python, Go, PHP, Ruby,
and more.

4. Block Storage: Scalable, high-performance SSD-based storage that can be
   attached to Droplets to expand storage capacity.

5. Object Storage: DigitalOcean Spaces is an S3-compatible object storage
   service, suitable for storing and serving large amounts of unstructured data
like images, videos, and backups.

6. Databases: Managed databases for popular databases like PostgreSQL, MySQL,
   and Redis, which can be quickly deployed and scaled as needed.

7. Networking: Various networking solutions, including Virtual Private Cloud
   (VPC), floating IPs, load balancers, and Cloud Firewalls, to enhance
connectivity and security.

8. Marketplace: A collection of pre-configured applications and development
   stacks that can be quickly deployed on DigitalOcean infrastructure.

DigitalOcean is known for its simplicity, user-friendly interface, extensive
documentation, and active community. The company offers a pay-as-you-go pricing
model, with competitive rates compared to other cloud providers. DigitalOcean
has data centers across the globe, ensuring low-latency access and redundancy
for its customers.

{{ last_msg() }}

Okay, sounds like a decent provider indeed.  But what about the bandwidth?

{{ first_msg() }}

Does DigitalOcean have unmetered plans?

{{ chatgpt_msg() }}

DigitalOcean does not offer unmetered plans. They charge for bandwidth usage on
a pay-as-you-go basis, meaning you'll be billed for the data transfer used by
your Droplets (virtual private servers) and other services. However, their
pricing model is competitive, and they offer a generous amount of free
bandwidth with each Droplet.

For example, at the time of my knowledge cutoff in September 2021, the most
basic Droplet plan included 1 TB of free outbound data transfer per month. If
your usage exceeds the free transfer limit, you will be charged for additional
data transfer at a specific rate per gigabyte (which may vary by region).

It's important to note that inbound data transfer to your Droplets is free and
does not count towards your bandwidth usage. Also, data transfer between
Droplets within the same data center is free and not counted towards the limit.

You can monitor your bandwidth usage through the DigitalOcean control panel,
and it's a good idea to keep an eye on it to avoid unexpected costs if your
usage increases beyond the included free transfer amount.

{{ last_msg() }}

Pay-as-you-go bandwidth?  No thanks.  That's what I'm trying to avoid!

Okay, time to try a different approach...

{{ first_msg() }}

What are the best cheap plans from reputable hosting providers with unmetered
bandwidth?

{{ chatgpt_msg() }}

Finding the perfect balance between price, reputation, and unmetered bandwidth
can be challenging. Here are some hosting providers that offer relatively
inexpensive plans with unmetered bandwidth. Keep in mind that the specifics of
these plans may change over time, so it's always a good idea to check the
provider's website for the most up-to-date information:

<ol>
<li>A2 Hosting: <ul><li>They offer shared hosting plans with unmetered
bandwidth. Their "Lite" plan is their most affordable option, which includes a
single website, free SSL, and cPanel control panel.</ul>

<li>HostGator: <ul><li>Their shared hosting plans come with unmetered
bandwidth. The "Hatchling" plan is their cheapest option, allowing for a single
domain, free SSL certificate, and a user-friendly control panel.</ul>

<li>DreamHost: <ul><li> DreamHost provides shared hosting plans with unmetered
bandwidth. Their "Shared Starter" plan allows you to host one website with a
free domain, SSL certificate, and the use of their custom control panel.</ul>

<li>Bluehost: <ul><li>Bluehost's shared hosting plans also include unmetered
bandwidth. Their "Basic" plan is the most affordable and supports one website,
a free domain, free SSL, and a user-friendly control panel.</ul>

<li>SiteGround: <ul><li>SiteGround offers shared hosting plans with unmetered
bandwidth. Their "StartUp" plan allows you to host one website, with a free
SSL, daily backups, and a custom control panel.</ul>
</ol>

Remember that "unmetered" bandwidth does not necessarily mean "unlimited."
Providers may impose certain restrictions or fair usage policies to ensure that
their services are not abused. It's essential to review the terms and
conditions before choosing a hosting provider to ensure you understand the
limitations and guidelines.

{{ last_msg() }}

Shared hosting plans again?  That doesn't sound Docker-friendly!

{{ first_msg() }}

Do any of these offer a dedicated VPS with root access that can run Docker
containers on it?

{{ chatgpt_msg() }}

Yes, several of the mentioned hosting providers offer VPS hosting with root
access, allowing you to run Docker containers. Here are some details about the
VPS offerings of these providers:

<ol>
<li>A2 Hosting: <ul><li>They offer VPS hosting plans that come with root access
and the ability to install Docker. Their unmanaged VPS plans are the most
affordable option for developers comfortable with managing their server.</ul>

<li>HostGator: <ul><li>HostGator provides VPS hosting with full root access.
Their "Snappy 2000" plan is the entry-level VPS plan that allows you to install
Docker and manage the server as needed.</ul>

<li>DreamHost: <ul><li>DreamHost offers VPS hosting plans with root access,
allowing you to run Docker containers. Their "Basic VPS" plan provides a
managed environment, while the "Unmanaged VPS" option is more suitable for
developers who prefer complete control over the server.</ul>

<li>Bluehost: <ul><li>Bluehost's VPS hosting plans also include root access.
Their "Standard" plan is the most affordable option, providing you with the
ability to install Docker and manage your server.</ul>

<li>SiteGround: <ul><li>SiteGround no longer offers traditional VPS hosting
plans. They have shifted their focus to cloud hosting, which also provides root
access and the ability to run Docker containers. However, their cloud hosting
plans are generally more expensive than their shared hosting plans.</ul>
</ol>

All of these providers have different plan options, pricing, and features. It's
essential to review their offerings and determine which provider and plan best
suit your needs and budget.

{{ last_msg() }}

Since Server Hunter can search by virtualization type, I decided to narrow the
search based on which types could run Docker containers.

{{ first_msg() }}

Which of these virtualization types would allow the virtual server to run
Docker containers without difficulty?<br> Hyper-V<br> KVM<br> LXC<br>
OpenVZ<br> Other<br> Xen<br> VMware

{{ chatgpt_msg() }}

The virtualization types that allow you to run Docker containers without
difficulty are:

1. KVM (Kernel-based Virtual Machine): KVM is a full virtualization solution
   that provides each virtual server with dedicated resources and complete
isolation from other virtual machines. It allows you to run Docker containers
without any issues.

2. Xen: Xen is another full virtualization solution that provides dedicated
   resources and isolation for virtual machines. You can run Docker containers
on Xen-based virtual servers without any problems.

3. VMware: VMware is a popular virtualization platform that also allows you to
   run Docker containers without any issues. It provides full virtualization
and resource isolation for virtual machines.

4. Hyper-V: Hyper-V is a virtualization technology developed by Microsoft. It
   is a full virtualization solution that enables you to run Docker containers
without any difficulties.

LXC and OpenVZ are container-based virtualization technologies, which means
they share the host kernel and might have limitations when it comes to running
Docker containers. While it is technically possible to run Docker within LXC or
OpenVZ, it's generally not recommended due to potential compatibility and
security concerns.

For the best experience when running Docker containers, it is recommended to
use a full virtualization solution like KVM, Xen, VMware, or Hyper-V.

{{ last_msg() }}

At this point, it occurred to me to ask about the Server Hunter website,
although it did seem legit to me.

{{ first_msg() }}

How reputable is serverhunter.com?

{{ chatgpt_msg() }}

ServerHunter.com is a web hosting comparison platform that helps users find and
compare various hosting providers and their plans. It gathers information from
numerous hosting providers and presents it in a user-friendly way, making it
easier for users to make informed decisions when choosing a hosting service.

While ServerHunter.com does provide a valuable service, it's essential to keep
in mind that it is a comparison platform and not a hosting provider itself. It
is always a good idea to research individual hosting providers and read reviews
from trusted sources before making a final decision.

As a comparison platform, ServerHunter.com seems to have a positive reputation
and has been mentioned in several online articles and forums related to web
hosting. However, it's still essential to do your own research and use multiple
sources when evaluating hosting providers and their plans.

{{ user_msg() }}

Are there similar server comparison sites?

{{ chatgpt_msg() }}

Yes, there are several other server comparison sites that can help you find the
best hosting provider and plan for your needs. Some of these include:

1. [WebHostingGeeks.com](https://WebHostingGeeks.com/): Web Hosting Geeks is a
   web hosting review and comparison site that offers information on various
hosting providers, their plans, and features. It also includes user reviews to
help you make an informed decision.

2. [HostingAdvice.com](https://HostingAdvice.com/): HostingAdvice.com provides
   comprehensive reviews, comparisons, and guides for a wide range of hosting
providers and services. The site covers shared hosting, VPS hosting, dedicated
servers, and more.

3. [HostAdvice.com](https://HostAdvice.com/): HostAdvice.com is another web
   hosting comparison site that offers detailed reviews, comparisons, and
guides on hosting providers and their plans. It also features user reviews to
help you make an informed decision.

4. [WebHostingTalk.com](https://WebHostingTalk.com/): WebHostingTalk is a
   popular online forum where users can discuss and share information about web
hosting services, providers, and related topics. While not a direct comparison
site, it can be a valuable resource for finding information and opinions on
various hosting providers and plans.

5. [WhoIsHostingThis.com](https://WhoIsHostingThis.com/): WhoIsHostingThis.com
   is a web hosting comparison site that offers detailed reviews and
comparisons of various hosting providers and plans. It also includes
user-generated reviews and a tool to help you determine which hosting provider
is hosting a specific website.

These are just a few examples of server comparison sites available online.
Remember to do thorough research and read multiple reviews before choosing a
hosting provider and plan.

{{ last_msg() }}

At this point, I found an offer from BuyVM that looked really good, so I asked
ChatGPT about this hosting provider.

{{ first_msg() }}

What do you know about BuyVM/frantech.ca?

{{ chatgpt_msg() }}

BuyVM, a part of the FranTech Solutions group, is a web hosting provider known
for its affordable and reliable hosting services. They offer a range of hosting
solutions, including Virtual Private Servers (VPS), dedicated servers, and
shared hosting. Here are some key points about BuyVM and FranTech Solutions:

1. Founded in 2010: FranTech Solutions, the parent company of BuyVM, has been
   in the hosting industry for over a decade, which indicates a level of
stability and experience in the market.

2. Affordable hosting options: BuyVM is known for its budget-friendly VPS
   hosting plans, which cater to different needs and requirements. They offer
various packages with different resource allocations, making it easy for
customers to choose a plan that suits their specific needs.

3. KVM virtualization: BuyVM uses KVM (Kernel-based Virtual Machine)
   virtualization technology for its VPS hosting. KVM provides better isolation
and performance compared to some other virtualization technologies, allowing
for a more stable hosting environment.

4. SLA-backed uptime: BuyVM offers a 99.9% uptime Service Level Agreement (SLA)
   for their hosting services, ensuring that customers can expect reliable
service and minimal downtime.

5. Data center locations: BuyVM has multiple data center locations in the
   United States and Europe, allowing customers to choose a location that best
suits their target audience for better performance and latency.

6. Custom control panel: BuyVM offers a custom-built control panel called
   Stallion, which provides users with an easy-to-use interface to manage their
hosting services.

7. Customer support: BuyVM provides customer support through email and a ticket
   system. While they do not offer live chat or phone support, they have a
reputation for providing timely and helpful responses to customer inquiries.

Overall, BuyVM is a reputable hosting provider known for its affordable VPS
hosting plans and reliable service. As with any hosting provider, it's
essential to research and read user reviews to get a better understanding of
their service quality and customer support.

{{ last_msg() }}

We have a winner!  Affordable prices on good plans with full KVM virtualization
from a well-established, reputable provider?  Great!  The SLA, data center
options and Stallion control panels are all extra bonuses that I wasn't even
factoring into my search.  Sure, it would be nice to have live support, but
that would drive up their costs and prices.  It seems like a fair tradeoff.

I also did some Google searches about the provider.  The results looked good,
and their customers seem to like them.  Paraphrasing here, I recall seeing a
post from someone saying that BuyVM focuses on providing good service at
affordable prices and that they rely on word-of-mouth instead of advertising.
Sounds good to me, I'll give it a try.

The base cost of the plan I chose was only $3.50/month, but that was with no
backups.  Adding daily backups was only $0.50/month more, so that was a
no-brainer.  They also offer DDoS protection, but that would cost another
$3.00/month.  Since that was nearly the cost of the server itself, it didn't
seem worth including at this time.

The odds of my blog being targeted for a DDoS attack seem infinitesimal for the
foreseeable future, and I don't see much reason to fret over the possibility of
being down for hours, or even days.  After all, this is a brand-new blog, so
there's no audience yet.  If it somehow becomes popular someday, I can always
add the DDoS protection later.  ChatGPT agreed.

{{ first_msg() }}

Some providers claim to have free DDOS protection.  BuyVM charges an extra
$3.00/month to add DDOS protection.

{{ chatgpt_msg() }}

Distributed Denial of Service (DDoS) protection is an important feature for web
hosting providers to offer their customers, as it helps prevent malicious
traffic from overwhelming a website or server, leading to downtime and
performance issues. Different hosting providers handle DDoS protection in
various ways, and some may offer it as a free service, while others charge
extra for it.

When a provider offers free DDoS protection, it's usually a basic level of
protection that may only be effective against small-scale attacks or the most
common types of attacks. This basic level of protection might be sufficient for
some users, but it may not be enough to mitigate more sophisticated or
larger-scale attacks.

BuyVM charges an additional $3.00/month for their DDoS protection, which may
indicate that they offer a more robust or advanced level of protection compared
to some of the free options available from other providers. By charging for
this service, they might also be able to allocate more resources to their DDoS
protection infrastructure, leading to better performance and protection for
their customers.

When choosing a hosting provider, it's essential to consider the type of DDoS
protection offered and whether the protection level is adequate for your needs.
If your website or application is particularly susceptible to DDoS attacks or
requires a high level of protection, it might be worth paying extra for a more
comprehensive DDoS protection service.

{{ user_msg() }}

Their additional charge for DDoS protection includes an additional IP address.
Why would that be?

{{ chatgpt_msg() }}

When a hosting provider offers DDoS protection with an additional IP address,
it's typically because the DDoS protection service operates on a separate IP
address from your main hosting IP address. This setup provides several
benefits:

1. Isolation: By using a separate IP address for DDoS protection, the provider
   can isolate the traffic destined for your server. The DDoS protection
service will filter the incoming traffic on this separate IP address, allowing
only legitimate traffic to reach your server. This setup helps maintain the
stability and performance of your main hosting IP address.

2. Redundancy: Having an additional IP address allows you to switch between the
   protected IP and your main IP if needed. For instance, if a DDoS attack
targets your primary IP address, you can switch to the protected IP address to
maintain your website's availability.

3. Flexibility: An additional IP address provides flexibility in managing your
   network resources. You can choose to route specific services or applications
through the protected IP address while keeping other services on the main IP
address. This can be useful if you only need DDoS protection for specific parts
of your infrastructure.

4. Easier management: By separating the DDoS-protected traffic from your
   regular traffic, it's easier to monitor and manage your network resources.
You can more accurately measure the effectiveness of the DDoS protection
service and make adjustments as needed.

In summary, an additional IP address for DDoS protection helps to isolate and
manage traffic more effectively, providing increased flexibility and redundancy
to ensure your website or application remains available during an attack.

{{ user_msg() }}

Should I worry about DDoS protection at all?  This is just a blog website.

{{ chatgpt_msg() }}

For a personal blog or a small website, DDoS protection might not be a high
priority, especially if you're just starting out. DDoS attacks are more
commonly targeted at larger businesses, high-profile websites, and those with
controversial content. However, it's essential to be aware that DDoS attacks
can happen to anyone, and having some level of protection can be beneficial.

Here are a few factors to consider when deciding whether to invest in DDoS
protection for your blog:

1. Traffic and audience size: If you have a small audience and low traffic, the
   likelihood of being targeted by a DDoS attack is relatively low. However, as
your blog grows and gains more visibility, the risk may increase.

2. Nature of your content: If your blog covers controversial topics or attracts
   strong opinions, there may be a higher likelihood of being targeted by a
DDoS attack.

3. Budget: DDoS protection services can be an additional expense, and you'll
   need to weigh the cost against the potential benefits for your blog.

4. Hosting provider features: Some hosting providers include basic DDoS
   protection as part of their standard offerings. If your hosting provider
offers such protection, you may not need to invest in additional services.

In summary, DDoS protection might not be a high priority for a small blog, but
it's essential to be aware of the risks and consider the factors above. As your
blog grows and gains more visibility, you may want to revisit this decision and
consider implementing a DDoS protection solution.

{{ user_msg() }}

Can I start without DDoS protection and add it after the fact if I get
targeted?

{{ chatgpt_msg() }}

Yes, you can start without DDoS protection and add it later if you get targeted
or feel the need for increased security. Many hosting providers and third-party
services offer DDoS protection that can be added to your existing hosting plan
without requiring any significant changes to your website.

However, it's essential to keep in mind that adding DDoS protection after an
attack has already started may not be as effective as having it in place
beforehand. The time it takes to set up the protection and mitigate the attack
could result in prolonged downtime or loss of service for your website.

If you're concerned about the potential for DDoS attacks but don't want to
invest in protection services upfront, consider choosing a hosting provider
that includes basic DDoS protection in their standard hosting plans. This way,
you'll have some level of protection from the start without incurring
additional costs. As your website grows and the risk of DDoS attacks increases,
you can then evaluate whether you need more advanced protection services.

{{ last_msg() }}

I ordered the VPS server from BuyVM and mentioned some details to ChatGPT.

{{ first_msg() }}

I'm going to try this KVM VPS from BuyVM/frantech.ca -- which operating system
would be best?  CentOS, Debian or Ubuntu?

{{ chatgpt_msg() }}

The choice between CentOS, Debian, and Ubuntu depends on your personal
preferences, familiarity with the operating systems, and the specific
requirements of your project. All three are popular and reliable Linux
distributions, but they have some differences that may influence your decision:

1. CentOS: CentOS is based on the sources of Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL)
   and is known for its stability and long-term support. It's often chosen for
production environments, especially when running enterprise applications. If
you're looking for a stable OS with a strong focus on security and reliability,
CentOS is a good choice. However, CentOS tends to have older packages compared
to Debian and Ubuntu due to its focus on stability.

2. Debian: Debian is known for its robustness and stability, and it's the basis
   for many other Linux distributions, including Ubuntu. It has a vast
repository of packages and a strong focus on free software. If you value
stability and a broad selection of packages, Debian is an excellent choice.
Debian generally strikes a balance between being up-to-date and stable.

3. Ubuntu: Ubuntu is based on Debian and is one of the most popular Linux
   distributions. It's known for its ease of use, regular updates, and strong
community support. Ubuntu has a more frequent release cycle compared to CentOS
and Debian, meaning you'll get newer packages and software more quickly. If you
prefer a more user-friendly experience and the latest software, Ubuntu is a
great option.

In summary, if you prioritize stability and long-term support, CentOS is a good
choice. For a balance between stability and up-to-date packages, Debian is a
solid option. If you want a user-friendly experience and the latest software,
go with Ubuntu.

As a side note, CentOS has shifted its focus to CentOS Stream, a
rolling-release distribution that serves as an upstream for RHEL. This change
has led many users to consider alternatives like Rocky Linux or AlmaLinux,
which aim to provide the same stability and long-term support as the original
CentOS.

{{ user_msg() }}

I'll go with Ubuntu.  That's what I use with WSL on my laptop too.  It has a
part of the configuration page under a section header of "Configure Server" and
a label of "Service Name" on the input box, which was prepopulated with a value
of "SLICE-183963".  Any idea what this is?

{{ chatgpt_msg() }}

The "Service Name" field is likely used by BuyVM/frantech.ca to internally
identify and manage your VPS instance. This prepopulated value "SLICE-183963"
is probably an automatically generated name assigned to your new VPS.

In most cases, you don't need to worry about this field, and you can keep the
default value. However, you might want to change it to something more
descriptive and meaningful to you, especially if you plan to manage multiple
VPS instances. This can make it easier to identify and manage your VPS
instances from the provider's control panel. For example, you could use
something like "CodeReflectionsBlog" as the service name to make it more
recognizable.

{{ user_msg() }}

I can probably change this name later?

{{ chatgpt_msg() }}

Yes, you should be able to change the "Service Name" later through the hosting
provider's control panel or customer dashboard. Generally, hosting providers
allow you to update and manage various aspects of your VPS, including its name,
for easier management.

If you have any trouble changing the name later or if you're unsure how to do
it, you can always reach out to the hosting provider's support team for
assistance.

{{ last_msg() }}

Here's the details on the VPS plan I ordered:

{{ first_msg() }}

Okay, I've placed the order for the VPS from BuyVM/frantech.ca.  The product
name is "Las Vegas - AMD RYZEN KVM - LV RYZEN KVM 1GB" and the specs are: 1 GB
DDR4 RAM, 1 CPU Core @ 3.9 GHz+, 20 GB NVME Storage, 1 IPv4 + /48 IPv6,
1000Mbit Unmetered BW, DDoS Protection Available, BGP Session Available.  The
base price is $3.50 USD per month, and I added the automatic daily backups for
another $0.50 USD per month, so the total is $4.00 USD per month.  I didn't
sign up for the DDoS protection at this time; that would be another $3.00 USD
per month.

{{ chatgpt_msg() }}

Congratulations on setting up your VPS with BuyVM/frantech.ca! You've chosen a
VPS plan with a good balance of resources for a personal blog, and the
additional daily backups will provide you with peace of mind in case of data
loss.

Now that you have your VPS, you can proceed with setting up your preferred
static site generator, comment system, and other necessary tools and services
for your blog. If you face any issues or have questions during the setup
process, feel free to ask for assistance.

Good luck with your new blog, and I hope it becomes a successful platform for
sharing your programming insights and experiences!

{{ user_msg() }}

Since this is a KVM VPS, I should be able to easily run any number of Docker
containers, right?

{{ chatgpt_msg() }}

Yes, you can run multiple Docker containers on your KVM VPS without any issues.
KVM virtualization provides full virtualization, which means you have an
isolated environment with its own kernel, allowing you to run Docker and create
containers without restrictions. Just make sure to monitor your resource usage
(CPU, RAM, and storage) as you add more containers to ensure that your VPS
continues to perform well and doesn't become overloaded.

{{ last_msg() }}

Thus concludes my quest for a server to use for a comment system and whatever
other purposes come to mind.  Tomorrow, I'll return to the topic of choosing
the blogging platform.
